README.md, before:

# ESP

Earth Surface Properties Toolbox

A Matlab toolbox for creating and analyzing Earth Surface Properties (ESP) products.


## Installation Notes

To install the ESPToolbox:

1.  Download the file "ESPToolbox\ vX.Y.mltbx" to your ~/Documents/MATLAB
    directory
2.  Double-click it to add it to your matlab path.
3.  Get help with:

> >> doc ESPToolbox

## Development Notes

To create a new version of the Toolbox:

1.  Use unittests for automated testing, all tests in tests directory
    will automatically be run by `release()`. To run a given test
    manually, use run(testClassName)
2.  Update automated documentation and Toolbox Contents.m file:
    navigate to the directory that contains the Contents.m file,
    which is tbx/ESPToolbox, make it the Current Folder. On the
    Current Folder bar, click the context menu (down triangle)
    and select Reports->Contents Report, follow prompts to
    add/delete items according to what you have changed.
3.  Update the version number in the ESPToolbox.prj file:
    navigate to this file in the Current Folder, double-clicking and
    changing the version number.
4.  Make sure the project sandbox is on the path and run `release()`.
    This will run all tests and produce a new .mltbx file in the releases
    directory. If you have updated the version number you should see a new
    .mltbx file, otherwise it will overwrite one that was already there.

To test a new Toolbox release:

1.  Remove the sandbox directories from the matlab path with `rmsandbox()`.
2.  Check and remove any previous Toolbox paths from the matlab path.
3.  Double-click the new .mltbx file to add it to the path.

Commit message:

Updated various docs for more complete help.

README.md, after:

# ESP

Earth Surface Properties Toolbox

A Matlab toolbox for creating and analyzing Earth Surface Properties (ESP) products.


## Installation Notes

To install the ESPToolbox:

1.  Download the file "ESPToolbox\ vX.Y.mltbx" to your ~/Documents/MATLAB
    directory
2.  Double-click it to add it to your matlab path.
3.  Get help with:

> >> doc ESPToolbox

## Development Notes

To create a new version of the Toolbox:

1.  Use unittests for automated testing, all tests in tests directory
    will automatically be run by `release()`. To run a given test
    manually, use run(testClassName)
2.  Update automated documentation and Toolbox Contents.m file:
    navigate to the directory that contains the Contents.m file,
    which is tbx/ESPToolbox, make it the Current Folder. On the
    Current Folder bar, click the context menu (down triangle)
    and select Reports->Contents Report, follow prompts to
    add/delete items according to what you have changed. The Contents.m file
    controls what shows up when you type `help ESPToolbox`.
3.  Update the doc/*.html files and update the helpsearch file by
    calling `builddocsearchdb('/Users/brodzik/Documents/MATLAB/esp/tbx/doc')'
4.  There is some way to build extra documentation by opening your .m
    file and doing "Publish"--this shows up in the documentation, but
    I'm not entirely sure what good it does.
5.  Update the version number in the ESPToolbox.prj file:
    navigate to this file in the Current Folder, double-clicking and
    changing the version number.
6.  Make sure the project sandbox is on the path and run `release()`.
    This will run all tests and produce a new .mltbx file in the releases
    directory. If you have updated the version number you should see a new
    .mltbx file, otherwise it will overwrite one that was already there.

To test a new Toolbox release:

1.  Remove the sandbox directories from the matlab path with `rmsandbox()`.
2.  Check and remove any previous Toolbox paths from the matlab path.
3.  Double-click the new .mltbx file to add it to the path.
